Brazil is the largest country
in South America
—from the Amazon rain forest
to the rich farmland
and the beautiful coastline.
Paraguay borders Brazil
and is the eighth largest country
in South America.
Its diverse geography includes major rivers,
vast plains,
and fertile farmland.
We wondered how the Bethel families
in those countries were doing
after some two and a half years
of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Brother Dellinger and I,
along with our wives, Lourdes and Angela,
began our journey from Warwick Bethel
with a flight to São Paulo, Brazil.
But after the recent presidential election,
large protests in São Paulo
were blocking key roads,
including the road
from the airport to the branch office.
But Jehovah provided
an unexpected solution.
Thanks to the generosity
of a Witness family,
we were transported from the airport
in record time.
We had no problem finding a parking space
on the Bethel soccer field.
The branch is located in a rural area
and serves as a home
to some 1,200 volunteers.
During our visit,
the entire Bethel family
enjoyed morning worship and breakfast
in the dining room.
Irmãos, bom dia!
Are you excited to be here
for the branch visit?
We are too.
One of the first stops on our tour
was the large printery.
In harmony with the Governing Body’s desire
to provide printed material,
Brazil produced publications
in 65 languages last year.
Brazil also serves as a warehousing branch.
What is that?
It means Brazil can print,
stock, and ship literature directly
to individual congregations
in Paraguay, Argentina, Uruguay,
Bolivia, Chile, and Peru.
Brazil also ships publications to branches
in Colombia, Mexico, the United States,
South Africa, Germany, and Japan.
In addition,
there are ten remote translation offices
that translate our publications
into other languages spoken in Brazil.
Brazil Bethel has two museums;
one is devoted
to the history of Bible translation
and the other shows
the history of Jehovah’s people in Brazil.
The Brazil branch
also provides the Art Department in Patterson
with photos and artwork for our publications.
Perhaps you recognize some of these scenes.
Under the oversight
of Audio/Video Services at headquarters,
Brazil has a regional video team.
Ready, set, action!
With all of this activity
and over 900,000 publishers to support,
the branch is being renovated and modernized.
Many commuter Bethelites
are sharing in this project
and, as you can see,
all are happy to help.
Another highlight of our visit was
the special dinner with the Bethel family,
which featured the Bethel chorus,
traditional dancing,
and some excellent field service experiences.
Naturally,
we couldn’t wait to see for ourselves
what field service was like.
And, sure enough,
we found that,
both in the rural areas and in the city,
people were polite, easy to talk with,
and receptive to the Kingdom message.
We couldn’t help but think that many more
may yet come into Jehovah’s organization
in this large country.
At the Assembly Hall on the branch property,
we were able to enjoy a special program
with the Bethel family
and nearby congregations.
Over 2,000 attended.
After our final meal with the Bethel family,
it was hard to hold back the tears
as we said our farewells.
But just before our departure,
we heard of more road blockages!
Would we be able to get
to São Paulo in time for our flight?
Absolutely.
Upon our arrival at Paraguay Bethel,
we were surprised and overwhelmed.
What a welcome!
The Paraguay branch is located
just outside the capital city of Asunción.
Just a block down the street,
a beautiful new Assembly Hall
and School for Kingdom Evangelizers facility
were nearing completion.
The enthusiasm of the construction volunteers
was contagious.
Just a few weeks after our visit,
the Assembly Hall and school facility
were completed.
There are about 100 members
in the Paraguay Bethel family,
which cares
for the 11,000 publishers in the country.
The largest department at the branch
is Translation.
These dear brothers and sisters
devote much effort
to translate our publications and our website
into the Guaraní language.
This has proven to be a blessing
for honesthearted ones
throughout the country.
For example, we learned
of a Guaraní-speaking woman named Angelina.
During the pandemic,
Angelina studied the Bible by cell phone.
But because she lives in a remote location,
electricity is unreliable.
But that did not deter Angelina.
For her Bible study,
Angelina walked four kilometers,
or two and a half miles,
round-trip to charge her cell phone.
As she progressed,
she walked that distance more often
so that she could connect to our meetings.
Was it worth the effort?
Today, Angelina is now baptized
and her husband is studying the Bible!
We were curious
about what we would find in the ministry.
In one city park,
virtually everyone we spoke with
was polite, humble, and willing to talk.
The next day,
despite an outbreak of COVID-19,
we enjoyed a special meeting
that was transmitted
to all congregations throughout the country.
The program featured experiences
that highlighted
the progress of the preaching work.
No doubt many more
will respond to the Kingdom message
in Paraguay.
For the special meal with the Bethel family,
we enjoyed delicious food
along with traditional dancing and singing.
We also enjoyed hearing
nice experiences of Bethelites
who witnessed by letter and telephone
during the pandemic.
Yes, as was true of Brazil,
the Paraguay Bethel family
is united and joyful.
Many in the Bethel family said,
“We did not realize
how much we needed this visit.”
Truly, these visits are evidence
of the Governing Body’s love
in caring for our Bethel families worldwide.
As you can imagine,
it was hard to tear ourselves away
from our dear brothers and sisters.
But we rejoiced in seeing
how Jehovah has so lovingly cared for them
during the past few years.
We will remember them fondly.
Both Bethel families
send their warm love to the Governing Body.